# nacl-browser

NaCl API port for browsers using the [Web Cryptography API](http://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/).

This module is supported by Firefox Nightly (32+) out of the box.

Chrome Canary (37+) works (except the _stream_ module due to a missing AES-CTR
implementation) with experimental Web Platform features enabled.

# example

TODO

# stream

Secret-key encryption module.

> The `stream()` function, viewed as a function of the IV for a uniform
> random key, is designed to meet the standard notion of unpredictability.
>
> This means that an attacker cannot distinguish this function from a
> uniform random function. Consequently, if a series of messages is
> encrypted by `stream_xor()` _with a different IV for each message_,
> the ciphertexts are indistinguishable from uniform random strings
> of the same length.
>
> Note that the length is not hidden. Note also that it is the caller's
> responsibility to ensure the uniqueness of IVs — for example, by using IV 1
> for the first message, IV 2 for the second message, etc. IVs are long enough
> that randomly generated IVs have negligible risk of collision.
>
> NaCl does not make any promises regarding the resistance of `stream()` to
> "related-key attacks." It is the caller's responsibility to use proper
> key-derivation functions.

```js
var msg = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog";
var data = new TextEncoder("utf-8").encode(msg);
var iv = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(16));

// Generate a random key.
var key = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(32));

// Encrypt.
nacl.stream_xor(key, iv, data).then(function (enc) {
  console.log(enc);

  // Decrypt.
  nacl.stream_xor(key, iv, enc).then(function (dec) {
    console.log(dec);

    // Get the key stream that was used to encrypt.
    nacl.stream(key, iv, data.byteLength).then(function (key_stream) {
      console.log(key_stream);
    });
  });
});
```

Output:

```js
// The message encrypted with the random key and IV.
Uint8Array [ 210, 136, 139, 204, 62, 140, 111, 44, 105, 139, ... (and 33 more) ]

// "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog" as UTF-8 bytes.
Uint8Array [ 84, 104, 101, 32, 113, 117, 105, 99, 107, 32, ... (and 33 more) ]

// The key stream that was xor'ed with the plaintext.
// 84 ^ 134 == 210, 104 ^ 224 == 136, 101 ^ 238 == 139, ...
Uint8Array [ 134, 224, 238, 236, 79, 249, 6, 79, 2, 171, ... (and 33 more) ]
```

#### .stream(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, uint length) → Promise

See `.stream_aes256ctr()` as it is the default key stream generator.

#### .stream_xor(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

See `stream_aes256ctr_xor()` as it is the default stream cipher.

#### .stream_aes128ctr(ArrayBuffer[16] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, uint length) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the AES-128-CTR key stream for a given IV
under a given key. The resulting ArrayBuffer will contain the number of bytes
as given by the `length` argument. The key length must be exactly 16 bytes.
The IV must have a length of 16 bytes.

#### .stream_aes128ctr_xor(ArrayBuffer[16] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the AES-128-CTR encryption of the data
contained in the given ArrayBuffer under the given key and IV. The key length
must be exactly 16 bytes. The IV must have a length of 16 bytes. The result
will have the same length as `data`, and is the bytes of `data` xor the key
stream generated by `stream_aes128ctr()`.

#### .stream_aes256ctr(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, uint length) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the AES-256-CTR key stream for a given IV
under a given key. The resulting ArrayBuffer will contain the number of bytes
as given by the `length` argument. The key length must be exactly 32 bytes.
The IV must have a length of 16 bytes.

#### .stream_aes256ctr_xor(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer[16] iv, ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the AES-256-CTR encryption of the data
contained in the given ArrayBuffer under the given key and IV. The key length
must be exactly 32 bytes. The IV must have a length of 16 bytes. The result
will have the same length as `data`, and is the bytes of `data` xor the key
stream generated by `stream_aes256ctr()`.



# authentication

Secret-key message authentication module.

> The `auth()` function, viewed as a function of the message for a uniform
> random key, is designed to meet the standard notion of unforgeability.
> This means that an attacker cannot find authenticators for any messages
> not authenticated by the sender, even if the attacker has adaptively
> influenced the messages authenticated by the sender.
>
> NaCl does not make any promises regarding "strong" unforgeability;
> perhaps one valid authenticator can be converted into another valid
> authenticator for the same message. NaCl also does not make any
> promises regarding "truncated unforgeability".

```js
var msg = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog";
var data = new TextEncoder("utf-8").encode(msg);

// Generate a random key.
var key = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(32));

// Compute an authentication code.
nacl.auth_hmacsha256(key, data).then(function (mac) {
  console.log(mac);

  // Verify.
  nacl.auth_hmacsha256_verify(key, data, mac).then(function () {
    console.log("Given MAC is a valid authenticator!");

    // Override the key with a new random value.
    key = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(32));

    // Verify again.
    nacl.auth_hmacsha256_verify(key, data, mac).then(function () {
      // We should not get here as the promise
      // (with high probability) must not resolve.
    }, function () {
      console.log("Given MAC is *not* a valid authenticator under the new key!");
    });
  });
});
```

Output:

```js
// Note that this MAC will be random because the key used in this example is.
Uint8Array [ 148, 166, 133, 235, 128, 30, 117, 8, 40, 89, ... (and 22 more) ]

// Verification tests.
"Given MAC is a valid authenticator!"
"Given MAC is *not* a valid authenticator under the new key!"
```

#### .auth(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

See `.auth_hmacsha256()` as it is the default authentication function.

#### .auth_verify(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer data, ArrayBuffer[32] mac) → Promise

See `.auth_hmacsha256_verify()` as it is the default verification function.

#### .auth_hmacsha256(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the HMAC-SHA-256 authenticator corresponding
to the data contained in the given ArrayBuffer under the given key. The key
length must be exactly 32 bytes. The result has a fixed length of 32 bytes.

#### .auth_hmacsha256_verify(ArrayBuffer[32] key, ArrayBuffer data, ArrayBuffer[32] mac) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves when the given MAC is a valid authenticator
for the data contained in the given ArrayBuffer under the given key. The
promise will be rejected if the MAC is not a valid authenticator.



# hashing

Cryptographic hash functions.

``` js
var msg = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog";
var data = new TextEncoder("utf-8").encode(msg);

nacl.hash(data).then(function (digest) {
  console.log(digest);
});
```

Output:

```js
Uint8Array [ 7, 229, 71, 217, 88, 111, 106, 115, 247, 63, ... (and 54 more) ]
```


#### .hash(ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

See `.hash_sha512()` as it is the default hash function.

#### .hash_sha256(ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the SHA-256 message digest corresponding to
the data contained in the given ArrayBuffer. The result has a fixed lenght of
32 bytes.

#### .hash_sha512(ArrayBuffer data) → Promise

Returns a promise that resolves to the SHA-512 message digest corresponding to
the data contained in the given ArrayBuffer. The result has a fixed length of
64 bytes.

# install

With [npm](https://npmjs.org) do:

```
npm install nacl-browser
```

#notes

Unlike the original NaCl library the default authentication function is
HMAC-SHA-256 instead of HMAC-SHA-512/256 because unfortunately the Web
Cryptography API does not provide an implementation of the latter.

While SHA-512/256 can be implemented more efficiently on modern 64-bit CPUs,
SHA-512 truncated to 256 bits is as safe as SHA-256 as far as the
cryptography community knows.

Additionally, HMACs are substantially less affected by collisions than their
underlying hashing algorithms alone.

# license

MPL 2.0
